We linked order and order item using a one-to-many relationship.
When a customer places an order,
we need to persist both order and order item entities separately.
But if you think about it,
an order item by itself has no meaning.
It always has to be used in conjunction with an order.
Why not persist both order and order item at the same time?
That's where cascade helps.
JPA can cascade operations performed on an entity to its associated entities.
In the one-to-many annotation,
I've marked cascade as cascade type persist
which tells hibernate that when an order is persisted,
the persist operation needs to be cascaded to
the associated entity which in this case is order item.
Let's run this code again to see if order item gets persisted along with the order.
Again, the important thing to note here is that I am not
persisting order items separately and I'm only persisting the order.
Looks like it persisted order and order items as well.
We can also scroll up to see the SQL queries
that hibernate sent in order to verify if ordered items were inserted.
This is the query to insert the order,
this is the query to insert an order item.
There are many other options in cascade type,
be sure to read about all the available cascade options in the next section.
We saw how order and order item can be persisted using one persist call.
Naturally, the next step is to see if we can read them together.
Fetch type allows us to read associated entities together.
I've included a fetch type here of type eager.
The default fetch type is lazy for a one-to-many relationship.
The order item collection in order is fetched once it's accessed.
In most cases, the order and order item are accessed together,
and if you don't want to wait until the order item is accessed you can use eager.
Let's run our test again to see if the entities get loaded at the same time.
We have order and order items getting persisted here and if you look in the read method,
I don't have a separate find call for reading
the order item but the order item gets printed here.
But how do we know that it was actually eagerly fetched instead of lazily fetched?
So if you scroll up,
you can see the SQL statement where if you scroll
all the way to the right you can see that hibernate issues
a join between the orders table and
the order item table fetching both order and it's order items in one go.